### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

    song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
    song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

    {"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
And below is an example of what the data in a log file, 2018-11-12-events.json, looks like.


If you would like to look at the JSON data within log_data files, you will need to create a pandas dataframe to read the data. Remember to first import JSON and pandas libraries.

    df = pd.read_json(filepath, lines=True)

For example, df = pd.read_json('data/log_data/2018/11/2018-11-01-events.json', lines=True) would read the data file 2018-11-01-events.json.


## Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

Fact Table
1. **songplays** - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

Dimension Tables

2. **users** - users in the app
    - user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
3. **songs** - songs in music database
    - song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
4. **artists** - artists in music database
    - artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
5. **time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
    - start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

### Project Template
To get started with the project, go to the workspace on the next page, where you'll find the project template files. You can work on your project and submit your work through this workspace. Alternatively, you can download the project template files from the Resources folder if you'd like to develop your project locally.

In addition to the data files, the project workspace includes six files:

1. test.ipynb displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
2. create_tables.py drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
3. etl.ipynb reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
4. etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
5. sql_queries.py contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
6. README.md provides discussion on your project.

### Project Steps
Below are steps you can follow to complete the project:

Create Tables
1. Write CREATE statements in sql_queries.py to create each table.
2. Write DROP statements in sql_queries.py to drop each table if it exists.
3. Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables.
4. Run test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.

### Build ETL Processes
Follow instructions in the `etl.ipynb` notebook to develop ETL processes for each table. At the end of each table section, or at the end of the notebook, run `test.ipynb` to confirm that records were successfully inserted into each table. Remember to rerun create_tables.py to reset your tables before each time you run this notebook.

### Build ETL Pipeline
Use what you've completed in etl.ipynb to complete etl.py, where you'll process the entire datasets. Remember to run create_tables.py before running etl.py to reset your tables. Run test.ipynb to confirm your records were successfully inserted into each table.

## Document Process
Do the following steps in your README.md file.

1. Discuss the purpose of this database in the context of the startup, Sparkify, and their analytical goals.
2. State and justify your database schema design and ETL pipeline.
3. [Optional] Provide example queries and results for song play analysis.

Here's a guide on Markdown Syntax.

NOTE: You will not be able to run test.ipynb, etl.ipynb, or etl.py until you have run create_tables.py at least once to create the sparkifydb database, which these other files connect to.
Project Rubric

Read the project rubric before and during development of your project to ensure you meet all specifications.


